hello welcome to videojug and a closer
look at the planets Pluto was named by
an 11-year old English school girl by
the name of Venetia Burney it was named
after the Roman god of the underworld
and until 2006 it was considered the
ninth planet in the solar system it was
discovered by 24 year-old American
astronomer Clyde Tombaugh at the Lowell
Observatory on February 18 1930 by
comparing photographic plates taken over
separate nights tomba spotted that one
point of light had moved on closer
inspection it was found to be the
elusive Planet X that had been predicted
for many years
Pluto is a tiny little world it is
smaller than our moon it has a brownish
yellow color but to see it you need a
very large telescope indeed it is so far
away on average 5 trillion kilometers
from the Sun that even the best images
show nothing of the planet it goes
around the Sun only once in 250 earth
years in a very elliptical orbit which
sometimes brings it in closer than
Neptune in 1978 it was discovered that
Pluto had a tiny moon Charon and then in
2005 two more satellites were discovered
Nix and Hydra so why is Pluto no longer
a planet in 2006 the International
Astronomical Union drew a series of
rules that determine what a planet is
and Pluto simply did not qualify in fact
there are more deserving bodies in the
solar system
a planet must be in orbit around the Sun
a planet must be big enough to pull
itself into a roundish shape and a
planet must have cleared its orbit of
other bodies Ludo is now considered to
be just a large member of the Kuiper
belt a band of space debris leftover
from the formation of the solar system
these minor planets are known as dwarf
planets NASA launched the New Horizons
mission to Pluto in 2006 it will arrive
in 2015
carrying with it the ashes of its
Discoverer Clyde Tombaugh for more
intriguing facts on the solar system
check out our other videos here on
videojug